Newsletter for 2023-12 (#124)
gnuradio/hugo-website: content/blog/2023-12-12-Update-on-the-last-three-months-in-GR/index.md

---
title: "Update on the Last Three Months in GNU Radio"
author: "Marcus Müller"
date: "2023-12-12"
aliases: ["blog/update-on-2023-September-to-December"]
---

We tried to establish a bit of a newsletter. Here's what I've written down about what I think a wider audience would want to know *after* GRCon'23

GNU Radio Releases and Code Highlights
======================================

GNU Radio
---------

> We released 3.10.8.0 and 3.9.8.0; the latter is the last of the quarterly series of 3.9.x releases. Since 3.10 and 3.9 are mostly code-compatible, we feel confident users of 3.9 should upgrade!

Reviewer: 3.9.8.0??? Is there some cut/paste going on here?

Author: Indeed! My bad. Need to fix that in the morning 🤦

In the meantime, work on the main development branch is ongoing, with quite a few architectural experiments, many of which find a way as non-API-breaking enhancements to developer experience in GNU Radio 3.10.x.

VOLK - For Those Who Want to Math Faster
----------------------------------------

> Much progress was made in GNU Radio, but also in one of the GNU Radio ecosystem projects: VOLK. [VOLK](https://libvolk.org), the Vector-Optimized Library of Kernels, might not be widely known, but it's a very handy collection of hand-optimized SIMD code for common numerical vector operations; comes with microbenchmarking, test-suit, automatic dispatching to the optimal implementation. It was spun off years ago to bundle the machine-specific vector operations that where strewn across GNU Radio's code base.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Much progress was made in GNU Radio, but also in one of the GNU Radio ecosystem projects: VOLK. [VOLK](https://libvolk.org), the Vector-Optimized Library of Kernels, might not be widely known, but it's a very handy collection of hand-optimized SIMD code for common numerical vector operations; comes with microbenchmarking, test suite, automatic dispatching to the optimal implementation. It was spun off years ago to bundle the machine-specific vector operations that were strewn across GNU Radio's code base.
```
